---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

## Why pick Asheville Programming Tutors?

You want to learn to program and use the computer but don’t know where to start.  Asheville
Programming Tutors can help.

Learning to program and use the computer as a master is a long journey.  New tools, new techniques,
and new skills are invented every day.  This can be daunting to the beginner and experienced alike.
By hiring a personal teacher skilled in these arts you can shorten your journey by years and start
making progress today.

You could learn by enrolling in the generalized curriculum you’ll find at a university or college
which typically focus on the science of programming.  Once you’re in the world you’ll realize that
to be effective you also need the art.

You could learn the basics of the art by rucking through a bootcamp in a set of stressful weeks or
months, overloaded to the brim as they attempt to fit years of knowledge into 60 hour weeks.  You
might get a job but then you’ll find over the course of your career that you’re missing the science
of how to be most effective.

You could learn the art and science by slogging through online courses or certificates designed for
the masses, dealing with the frustration of getting stuck in tutorial purgatory, reading book after
book of theory, and getting stuck at the common questions that every beginner has when the tutorial
doesn’t quite teach you what you need to know or quite match the world as it exists now as opposed
to what it was like when the tutorial was written.

Some people do succeed at learning how to program this way, but it can be a long and frustrating
road. There’s a better way.

You can start learning today with the help of a skilled mentor who has mastered the art and the
science.  With this teacher focused on your particular problems, designing the lessons you need to
learn, you will soon start solving the problems that you are interested in or making the things that
you want to make all the while being guided to mastery of these disciplines as a whole.

## What makes Asheville Programming Tutors Different?

We focus on developing, purposeful, mastery based programs, tailored toward our students designed to
help the student start solving problems or building things now while learning the arts of
programming and the tools the computer gives along the way.  This is instruction centered around
doing rather than just passively learning and outside of the traditional time windows most courses
or programs will box you into.  Students will learn at their own pace, on their own time, by
focusing on the things that they need to succeed.

We don’t shoehorn ourselves into particular languages, tools, or environments (although we’re glad
to give our opinions and suggestions).  We focus on designing and creating lessons with the student
that focuses on what they want to achieve and then tailor our lessons accordingly.  The primary goal
being to help the student start making progress today, gaining the general skills and principles
needed to succeed in any language, environment, or toolset they might encounter along the way.

The ultimate aim is to develop engineers and programmers who can succeed in any computational
context that they put their mind to and excel in any real world domain with the computer as their
primary tool.

## Who

### Charles Lanahan

By trade, a Senior Data Scientist with over a decade in industry, focusing on Entity
Resolution, fraud, security, AML, and credit risk.  Unlike most data scientists, has been
programming for over 23 years and has contributed code in many companies and code bases.  Started
Asheville Programming Tutors in 2023 with the hope of passing on what he knows and improving the
general quality of the developers and programmers coming out of the WNC area.  His computational
interests include machine learning/artificial intelligence, databases, security, applied
cryptography, and identity.  He also enjoys topics in mathematics, finance, and economics.
